what's up YouTube this is LD s reliance
I get asked a lot about what batteries
to use with solar panels with off-grid
solar panel systems I get asked a ton if
you can use car batteries so today I
want to go through four different types
of batteries and kind of the pluses and
minuses of using them with solar panel
systems let's start out with lithium ion
batteries those are extremely common in
small electronics and I don't have a
Nate this is one from a cell phone I
don't have an example from these are
also used in like smart cars you know
hybrid cars that use that used electric
motors and they are made up of
individual cells connected together
these are not used in solar panel
applications yet the technology will be
there but with charge controllers like
this this Morningstar TS 45 that I have
they don't have the technology that the
charging algorithms and so forth to be
able to charge these these individual
cells and take care of them some
technology is just not there yet so the
lithium-ion batteries like this or their
derivatives are not usable in solar the
next one I want to show you is a sealed
lead-acid battery these are these are
filled with fluid inside but they they
are not user serviceable basically I
know there's videos out there of how to
do it but really you can't there's
nothing you know as I'm flipping this
over on its lid there's nothing -
there's nothing to maintain with these
these are a little more expensive per
amp hour than say a flooded lead-acid
battery like that and these are perfect
for using in small solar panel systems
in fact on my smaller system I have a
couple of these wired together to
provide my my battery
our so these are great to a certain
point you don't want to use these with
big systems because these are more
expensive for the battery capacity than
other options car batteries these are
otherwise referred to as a flooded
lead-acid battery they are
user serviceable so you can replace the
water that evaporates out of these but
the difference between these and say
these flooded lead-acid batteries that
are for renewable energy is is
significant and the way I like to
describe that this is it like a sprinter
car batteries are meant to provide a lot
of juice fast they don't last very long
and they're not meant to go very long
between charges so think of it like a
sprinter they run fast races quickly
provide a lot of power a lot of juice
whereas these are meant to be drained
slowly over time and meant to be drained
much further down these these you can
drain down to 50% no problem over and
over again these if you drain them more
than about 10% if they go below let's
say 11 volts or so they're basically
dead you can't revive them they're
permanently damaged so you can use these
in solar in an emergency if you have to
but just keep that in mind that you
don't want to use these for very long if
you're using backup power you know run
this for five minutes but then turn it
off you do not want to you'll kill these
things quick so the last option this is
my live system these are as you can see
these are golf cart batteries but
they're basically for all intents and
purposes the exact same as you would buy
for a renewable
renewable energy dedicated type of a
battery like a trojan t105 or something
like that these are six volt
individually and I have them wired in
series and then parallel take to give me
my my
a battery bank but anyway that you can
watch another video on that these like I
was saying these are like marathon
runners instead of the sprinters these
are meant to go long a long time and and
take the abuse over and over and over
again so these are what you really want
to use when you get to a certain size of
a system you do not want to you know
string together a ton of these now this
is a smaller one you can get bigger
sealed lead-acid batteries than that but
these are quite a bit more expensive
these were only 80 bucks apiece so and a
similar-sized sealed lead-acid battery
to this would be you know 150 plus so
you do have to maintain these you do
have to fill these up with fluid you can
see that there's fluid in there but they
do require little maintenance but that
these are what you want to use in a
solar panel system of any significant
size so anyway like so let's review
lithium ion technology is not there yet
sealed lead-acid perfect for small
systems so you've got a 20 watt panel or
a 50 watt panel or under these are great
don't use a car battery unless you
absolutely have to you or you don't care
if it dies because you may kill it by
over discharging it and golf cart
batteries renewable energy batteries
telco batteries all those kind of things
those are meant to be or deep cycle
batteries you can get deep cycle
batteries for marine use anything that's
deep cycle were meant to be discharged
and recharged over and over and over
again that's what you want to use that's
going to save you money in the long run
and take the abuse anyway thought I'd
clear that up for you guys thanks for
watching